The Patent Office Journal 31/05/2013 11979
Early Publication:
The following patent applications have been published under section 11A (2) of The Patents (Amendment) Act 2005 and
rule 24A of The Patents (Amendment) Rules, 2006. Any person may file representation by way of opposition to the
Controller of Patents at the appropriate office against the grant of the patent in the prescribed manner under section 25(1)
of the Patents (Amendment) Act 2005 read with the rule 55 of The Patents (Amendment) Rules, 2006:
(12) PATENT APPLICATION PUBLICATION (21) Application No.1234/DEL/2013 A
(19) INDIA
(22) Date of filing of Application :26/04/2013 (43) Publication Date : 31/05/2013
(54) Title of the invention : SLOTTED HOLES MESH FILTERED STEEL PILE
(51) International classification :E02D
(31) Priority Document No :NA
(32) Priority Date :NA
(33) Name of priority country :NA
(86) International Application No
Filing Date
:NA
:NA
(87) International Publication No : NA
(61) Patent of Addition to Application Number
Filing Date
:NA
:NA
(62) Divisional to Application Number
Filing Date
:NA
:NA
(71)Name of Applicant :
1)NARESH KUMAR
Address of Applicant :ASSISTANT, PROFESSOR, CIVIL
ENGG. DEPTT. DELHI TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY
OPPOSITE SECTOR-17 ROHINI, NEAR VILLAGE
SHAHABAD DAULATPUR, BAWANA ROAD, DELHI-42
India
(72)Name of Inventor :
1)NARESH KUMAR
2)ASHUSTOSH TRIVEDI
(57) Abstract :
Described herein is a Slotted Holes Mesh- Filtered Steel Pile that can be used in a variety of soil conditions as well as apparatus
and associated methods. Slotted holes helps in increase of effective stresses in soil-steel pile surface interaction by draining out
extra buildup of pore water pressure in the immediate and longer run of time. As the potential flow of water will not be outwards
but inwards to inside of steel pile through slotted holes of steel pile. It relieves of chances of buildup of excess pore water pressure
for liquefaction of soils in the radially stressed zones of interaction of soil-steel pile. As effective stresses are directly proportional
to shear strength of the soil mass, thereby, it will lead to increase of side-resistance on soil-steel pile surfaces. The side-resistance
which is a part of load carrying capacity of steel piles will be increased to a large extent due to increase of effective stresses on
soil-steel pile interface. This will be further increased due to presence of slotted holes on the outer lateral surface of the steel pile
which not only drains out pore water to inside of the steel pile through mesh filter but also increase frictional forces due to
roughness of the surface. In totality, it leads to increase in load carrying capacity of the pile, increase in the density of adjoining
soil mass, consolidation of the soft soil and improved safety factor for designed loads of super-structures. The dewatering unit
attached through a pipe from the top-most slotted hole of the steel pile shall act to remove the drained out water collected in-side
the slotted hole steel pile. This special feature of slotted hole is provided throughout the vertical wall to accelerate the drainage in
the entire zone of influence. A fine wire mesh of a designed sieve size is placed inside the slotted steel pile.
No. of Pages : 23 No. of Claims : 17
